# Prediction-and-Classification
Baseball analytics had taken a leap advancement in the last years of technology. Usually, they term this study as the Sabermetrics a study name given by Bill James. Until the modern time these analytics brought a major change in the baseball leagues played worldwide. While coming to the Australian Baseball League (ABL) every team have their own dedicated departments to perform analysis on millions of dollars invested on franchise, players, fan meets etc. There are popular websites like Fangraphs and ABL stats to increase or gain the popularity. There is much literature getting its place in baseball analytics. 
The baseball data is thoroughly analysed and there is regular pattern found, the analytics will only be obtained perfectly if the Machine Learning (ML) Algorithms are brought int picture. The data we have and the predictions to be made will only suit the machine learning algorithms. The teams now bring up every aspect of the game and bring up some new features which are useful to make decisions on players or team selection etc. The ML mostly helps the teams to bring out the insights which cannot be done by the human analysis. 
The client is interested in knowing the players performance in the coming matches, this will take them to the best players and concentrating on them and improve their training. There might be basic factors like age, playing position, opponent, match days etc will have minimal effect on the players’ performance. To important the performance of the players and maintain a good consistency in the games it is important to have the complete knowledge on these factors that influence the players’ performance and predict their performance in the coming matches based on their previous statistics.  
For this model, the baseball stats of the players from the ABL website are used to predict their performance in their coming up leagues or matches. The model we are building needs some factors like average batting percentage etc. Simply saying the factors affecting the players’ performance are considered in here 
There will be many given factors affecting a player performance changing within matches. There might be weather conditions, family factors affecting the players’ performance on that given day. In some cases, there might be relationship between how one player performs and how other player performs just like when there is a bad day for a team captain then there is a high chance of even the good players not performing well on that day, there is the influence of the captain’s performance on the other players. This kind of patterns should be identified and the different solution for different factors need to be designed for the perfect predictions. 
Firstly, the Systematic Academic Literature (SAL) is done to summarize and decide which ML algorithm is suitable for the baseball data. The end task is to build the design, this helps the decision makers to now the existing and efficient techniques, establish future research. The literature approach is divided into two performance metrics each in batting and pitching. We can include other similar sports and applications in this literature which is important to decide on machine learning algorithm. The baseball a million-dollar sport which depends on x factors which keep changing b time to time according to the sport and franchise Industry. 
The research done through, and the data collected is used to predict the players’ performance in the upcoming league, we used the data of the previous seasons to train the model. Three machine learning algorithms -SVM, Random Forest and Linear Regression are used to predict the player performance. 
The data which is retrieved is deeply analysed and tested to identify some important factors helpful to build the model, this can be done perfectly by EDA. Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) is the step of understanding the data to obtain some insights to build the model and modify it according to the change in data in near years or generations. The process of identifying some analytical risks is also done in this step. The focus is on identifying the factors that affect the players performance, this will help the management and the support staff in identifying the performing players, overrated players etc 
This report lists out the data description, pre-processing of data, literature review on different sports and different machine learning algorithms used, models generated for predictions and comparisons of models based on different criteria, the algorithm brief and explaining it is working, results and visualizations generated at the end of the report. 
